---
layout: page
title: "My data science journey and the intent of this blog"
date:   2019-08-05 08:20:00 
categories: general
tags: [data science, springboard]
---

## The beginning

I have been pursuing a career in data science for almost two years now. I decided to make the switch from marine biology the summer before my last year of my bachelor's degree. I was participating in National Science Foundation's Research Experience for Undergraduates program (REU) at Dauphin Island Sea Lab in Alabama. I had to teach myself how to program in MATLAB, worked with the largest dataset I had ever experienced, and that is when I fell in love with both programmnig and data. It took a lot of self-reflection, and I felt discomfort and sadness from the idea of completely changing what I wanted to do for most of my life. I came to the conclusion that I enjoyed data science more than I have ever enjoyed marine biology courses or field work, and it was for the best to make the switch. I realized I should just finished my biology degree since I only had two semesters left, which mostly put my pursuit on hold until graduation (May 2018). I say mostly because I took whatever math and computer science courses could fit in my schedule and completed the amazing MOOC, [MIT's Introduction to Computer Science and Programming using Python](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-to-computer-science-and-programming-using-python-2). I seriously recommend this course for any beginners looking to learn computer science fundamentals.

## Internships, disappointment, and a new beginning

Since graduation, I have had most of my time freed up and have been actively pursuing data science, which has been a rollercoaster of ups and downs. I continued my journey with a summer internship at the University of Michigan and NOAA, building a database (with no prior knowledge or experience). They had several years of time series data that were being stored as flat text files on a server. I used a couple great online resources to get me started ([Georgia Tech's Database Systems Concepts and Design](https://www.edx.org/course/database-systems-concepts-and-design) and [Stanford's Introduction to Databases](https://lagunita.stanford.edu/courses/DB/2014/SelfPaced/about)) while researching different databases. I went through several years of data at 15 stations and buoys, where the sensors and formatted differed station-to-station and at times, year-to-year, designed a schema, and wrote a script to normalize and migrate approximately 197 million observations into a TimescaleDB (based on PostgreSQL) database.

Then I came back home to Louisiana and started a data analyst internship with a growing ambulance company based in Lafayette. It was a challenging and rewarding experience; there were no data analysts or data scientists to mentor me, so I worked on the company's first data science projects but mainly alone. This was my first exposure to machine learning, where I dabbled in mostly unsupervised learning (clustering and topic modeling). I did as much as I could as someone coming from a different background, self-taught, and with no guidance, and I was able to give valuable insights, including identifying bugs within the automation process, completing preliminary work for a few projects, and submitting proposals to further pursue them.

I was ready to move on and start working with a team (it got pretty lonely for me), so I started looking for other opportunities. I interviewed with a company and was given a verbal offer; I was exceptionally excited because it was work that was important to me (renewable energy). But when it was time for the official offer, they told me they couldn't fill the position because they had to go on a hiring freeze. This was pretty devastating, but I tried to keep my head held high and applied to other positions mainly in other cities (there aren't many opportunities where I currently am). After a couple months of no callbacks and being discouraged, I decided to take the plunge and signed up for Springboard's data science bootcamp (started July 1st).

That brings me to now. I have been planning on starting a blog for a while now, but I kept putting it off mainly because the fear of having no readers. I realized that if this is the case, that's okay. I want to use this blog as a way to document my continued data science journey, as well as a tool to reinforce the concepts I learn (i.e., the Feynman Technique). If by chance this is read by someone other than my fiancé, then welcome! I appreciate you taking the time, and I hope you learn something from these posts as well.
